# Computer-Network-Learning

Mastering computer basics is an important process.

## Introduction to Computer Networks

- A computer network is a set of nodes connected by communication links.
- A node can be a computer, printer or any other device capable of sending/receiving data generated by other nodes in the network.
- A communication link can be a wired link or wiredless link.
- The link carries the information.
- A computer network is mainly used for resource sharing.
- Identify end devices and intermediary devices.

## Computer Networks - Basic Characteristics

- Fault Tolerance, Scalability, Quality of Service, Security
- Fault Tolerance is the ability to continue working despite failures and to ensure no less of service
- Scalability is the ability to grow based on needs and to have good performance after growth.
- Internet is a scalable network.
- Quality of Service is the ability to set priorities and to manage data trafic to reduce data loss, delay etc.
- Security is the ability to prevent unauthorized access, misuse and forgery.

## Network Protocols and Communications

- Data communications are the exchange of data between two nodes via some form of link(transmission medium) such as a cable.
- Data flow means the data is going to flow from one node to another node. There are three different flows: Simplex(单工通信), Half Duplex(半双工通信), Full Duplex(全双工通信)
- Simplex:
  1. Communication is always unidirectional.
  1. One device can transmit and the other device will receive.
  1. Examples:Keyboards, Traditional monitors
- Half Duplex:
  1. Communication is both directions but not at the same time.
  1. If one device is sending, the other can only receive, and vice versa.
  1. Examples: Walkie-Talkies
- Full Duplex:
  1. Communication is both directions simultaneously(同时地)
  1. Device can send and receive at the same time.
  1. Example:Telephone line.
- All communication schemes will have the following things in common:
  1. Source and sender
  1. Destination and receiver
  1. Channel or media
- Protocol = Rule. It is a set of rules that govern data communication.
- Protocol determines:
  1. What is communicated?
  1. How it is communicated?
  1. When it is communicated?
- Elements of a protocol
  1. Message encoding: because we have two kinds of transmission medium(wired medium and wireless medium)
  1. Message formatting and encapsulation(封装): Encapsulate the information to identify the sender and the receiver rightly.
  1. Message timing: Flow control and response timeout.
  1. Message size: Long messages must be broken into smaller pieces to travel across a network.
  1. Message delivery options: unicast(one destination), multicast(not all destinations), broadcast(all destinations)

